docs: What's New & Upgrade Guide 10.0 (#64927)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/breaking-changes/breaking-changes-v10-0.md

---
description: Breaking changes for Grafana v10.0
keywords:
  - grafana
  - breaking changes
  - documentation
  - '10.0'
  - release notes
title: Breaking changes in Grafana v10.0
weight: -1
---

# Breaking changes in Grafana v10.0

> <!-- TO DO add intro text -->

Author: ```suggestion
Following are breaking changes that you should be aware of when upgrading to Grafana v10.0. 

For our purposes, a breaking change is any change that requires users or operators to do something. This includes:

- Changes in one part of the system that could cause other components to fail
- Deprecations or removal of a feature
- Changes to an API that could break automation
- Changes that affect some plugins or functions of Grafana
- Migrations that can’t be rolled back

For each change, the provided information:

- Helps you determine if you’re affected
- Describes the change or relevant background information
- Guides you in how to mitigate for the change or migrate
- Provides more learning resources

For release highlights and deprecations, refer to our [v10.0 What’s new]({{< relref "../whatsnew/whats-new-in-v10.0/index.md" >}}). For the specific steps we recommend when you upgrade to v10.0, check out our [Upgrade guide]({{< relref "../upgrade-guide/upgrade-v10.0/index.md" >}}).

```

## General breaking changes

### Angular is deprecated and turned off by default for new Grafana Cloud stacks

#### You are affected if

You create a new Grafana Cloud stack and intend to use any panel or data source plugins written using the Angular.js JavaScript framework. See the list of Angular plugins here.

#### Background

AngularJS is an old frontend framework that stopped active development many years ago. Because of that, it is a security risk. AngularJS also requires unsafe-eval in the [CSP (Content Security Policy)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/Security/CSP) settings which also reduces the security level of how javascript is executed in the browser.

Angular plugin support in Grafana is deprecated, meaning it will be removed in a future release. There are still some community and private plugins built using Angular. Starting with v9.0, Grafana has a server configuration option called [angular_support_enabled]({{< relref "../setup-grafana/configure-grafana/#angular_support_enabled" >}}), that controls whether Angular plugin support is available.

#### Change in Grafana v10

> Angular will be disabled by default for all new Grafana Cloud stacks.

Reviewer: Also @tolzhabayev will we block customers from installing angular plugins from new stacks that have them turned off? Could improve the UX if we did.

> Angular will be disabled by default for all new Grafana Cloud stacks.

Reviewer 2: Updated the text for the first comment. 

> will we block customers from installing angular plugins from new stacks

This isn't possible _yet_ but is something we're working on.

- Deprecations or removal of a feature
- Changes to an API that could break automation
- Changes that affect some plugins or functions of Grafana
- Migrations that can’t be rolled back

For each change, the provided information:

- Helps you determine if you’re affected
- Describes the change or relevant background information
- Guides you in how to mitigate for the change or migrate
- Provides more learning resources

For release highlights and deprecations, refer to our [v10.0 What’s new]({{< relref "../whatsnew/whats-new-in-v10.0/index.md" >}}). For the specific steps we recommend when you upgrade to v10.0, check out our [Upgrade guide]({{< relref "../upgrade-guide/upgrade-v10.0/index.md" >}}).

<!-- Template below
## Feature

> **Note:** You must use relative references when linking to docs within the Grafana repo. Please do not use absolute URLs. For more information about relrefs, refer to [Links and references](/docs/writers-toolkit/writing-guide/references/).-->

## General breaking changes

### Angular is deprecated and turned off by default for new Grafana Cloud stacks

#### You are affected if

> You create a new Grafana Cloud stack and intend to use any panel or data source plugins written using the Angular.js JavaScript framework. See the list of Angular plugins here.

Reviewer 2: The list is still in review so we may need to update this page when it is live - https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/68096

#### Background

AngularJS is an old frontend framework that stopped active development many years ago. Because of that, it is a security risk. AngularJS also requires unsafe-eval in the [CSP (Content Security Policy)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/Security/CSP) settings which also reduces the security level of how javascript is executed in the browser.

Angular plugin support in Grafana is deprecated, meaning it will be removed in a future release. There are still some community and private plugins built using Angular. Starting with v9.0, Grafana has a server configuration option called [angular_support_enabled]({{< relref "../setup-grafana/configure-grafana/#angular_support_enabled" >}}), that controls whether Angular plugin support is available.

#### Change in Grafana v10

Angular will be disabled by default for all new Grafana Cloud stacks.

#### How to mitigate

If you are using Angular plugins in Grafana, try an alternative panel or data source that does not use Angular. Here is a list of the most-used Angular plugins, and their alternatives where they exist.

> If you are a developer maintaining a plugin that uses Angular, we recommend you refactor or rewrite its frontend using React.js instead. The team at Grafana is ready to help and provide tools and guidance; you can reach us here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are a developer maintaining a plugin that uses Angular, we recommend you refactor or rewrite its frontend using React.js instead. The team at Grafana is ready to help and provide tools and guidance; you can reach us in [Slack](https://grafana.slack.com/archives/C3HJV5PNE) or our [Forum](https://community.grafana.com/c/plugin-development/30).
```
